Command 	Description
lsblk 		Produces information about all block devices, such as hard disks, DVD readers and more.
lscpu 		Shows information like number of CPUs, cores, threads and more.
lsdev 		Displays data about all devices of which the system is aware.
lshw 		Lists general hardware data—gives information on every detail of your hardware.
lspci 		Displays information about PCI buses in your box and devices connected to them, such as graphics cards, network adapters and more.
lsscsi 		Provides information on all SCSI devices or hosts attached to your box, such as hard disk drives or optical drives.
lsusb 		Generates information about USB buses in your box and devices connected to them.


TERMS:
ACPI (Advanced Configuration and Power Interface): related to power aspects.

AGP (Accelerated Graphics Port): a channel to allow attaching a video graphics card (not typically seen since around 2008).

APM (Advanced Power Management): older than ACPI, also related to power issues.

ATA (AT Attachment): "AT", as in the old IBM AT, a standard to connect storage devices, superseded by SATA in 2003.

BIOS (Basic Input/Output System): firmware used when booting an Intel-compatible PC.

DMA (Direct Memory Access): a feature that allows giving hardware access to RAM, independently of the CPU.

DMI (Desktop Management Interface): a framework for keeping track of devices in a computer.

IDE (Integrated Drive Electronics): an interface standard that later evolved into ATA.

IRQ (Interrupt ReQuest): a hardware signal that allows an interrupt handler to process a given event.

PCI (Peripheral Component Interconnect): a bus standard for attaching varied hardware devices to a computer, created in 1992.

UEFI (Unified EFI—Extensible Firmware Interface): a 2005 replacement for BIOS, which deprecated the previous 1998 EFI standard.

USB (Universal Serial Bus): a standard bus defined in 1995 to allow connecting all kinds of peripherals to a computer.

PATA (Parallel ATA): the new name for ATA, after SATA came out.

PCIe (PCI Express): a high-speed serial bus that replaced PCI and AGP in 2004. 